1 --- Existing users/roles and their permissions 

SELECT 
    rolname AS role_name, 
    rolsuper AS is_superuser, 
    rolcreaterole AS can_create_role, 
    rolcanlogin AS can_login, 
    rolconnlimit AS connection_limit,
    rolvaliduntil AS password_expiration
FROM pg_roles
WHERE rolname NOT LIKE 'pg_%';

Based on the output the dvd_rental database currently only contains one user role: the default postgres superuser. This user has absolute administrative privileges 
(is_superuser = true) and no connection restrictions (connection_limit = -1). There is no 'Separation of Duties.' In a secure environment, we should see separate roles 
for different tasks (e.g., an 'admin' for maintenance and a 'web_user' for daily queries). Using the superuser for all operations is a major vulnerability because any 
mistake or successful hack would result in a total loss of data control.
Suggested improvement would be to disable remote login for the postgres account.

2 --- Table-level privileges

SELECT 
    grantee, 
    table_name, 
    privilege_type 
FROM information_schema.role_table_grants 
WHERE table_schema = 'public';

The output shows that table-level privileges are exclusively assigned to the postgres role. This user possesses a full suite of permissions, including SELECT, INSERT, 
UPDATE, DELETE, and TRUNCATE across all tables and views (such as payment, customer, and film). No other users or groups have been granted any permissions.
It is risky because using a single account for everything creates a single point of failure where one stolen password or mistake can destroy the entire database. 
It lacks granular control, meaning even a simple app has the unnecessary power to delete all the data instead of just reading it.
Potential vulnerability is excessive privilige. If an application connects using the postgres account to perform simple tasks (like listing films), it possesses 
unnecessary permissions to delete data.
Suggested improvement is to create read-only role. For example, a role named web_customer should be created that only has the SELECT privilage on the film and category 
tables with no access to sensitive tables like payment.

3 --- Any existing row-level security policies

SELECT * FROM pg_policies;

The query returned no results.This indicates that Row-Level Security (RLS) is not implemented for any table in the database. so all users who have table-level access 
(e.g., SELECT, UPDATE) can access all rows within those tables.
It is risky because without RLS, If a user is granted SELECT on customer, they can see all customers across all stores, not just one store.
A clear vulnerability is that the public role often has default privileges on tables (e.g., SELECT access).This means:Any user in the database automatically inherits 
access through the public role. As a result, users who should have limited access may still be able to read sensitive data from tables like customer, payment, or rental.
Suggested improvement would be to Revoke default access from the public role so not every user automatically gets access to tables.

4 --- Database-level settings like connection limits or authentication methods 

SELECT rolname, rolconnlimit 
FROM pg_roles 
WHERE rolcanlogin = true;

The query results show only one role with login capabilities: the postgres superuser, and its connection limit is set to -1 (unlimited).
This setup is risky because an unlimited connection limit (-1) means a single buggy application could open enough connections to exhaust the server’s RAM or CPU, leading 
to a total database crash. Also, Using the postgres superuser for standard database tasks is dangerous. If the credentials for this account are compromised, the attacker 
has full control over the entire database server, not just the dvd_rental data.
Vulnerability is that the database lacks specialized, restricted roles for daily operations, forcing all traffic through a superuser account with no resource caps.
Suggested improvement would be to create a specific application user with limited privileges and a set connection limit.





















