1. How can one restrict access to certain columns of a database table?

In PostgreSQL, you we restrict access at a granular level using the GRANT command. Instead of giving a user access to an entire table, we specify the allowed columns 
in parentheses. Alternatively, we can use Views to present a filtered version of the table.
for example, if we want a marketing clerk to see customer names but not their email addresses or active status:
SQL code will be:
GRANT SELECT (first_name, last_name) ON TABLE customer TO marketing_user;
Real Scenario:
in a payroll system a human resources assistant might need access to the employees table to check job titles and departments, but their access is restricted so they cannot 
see the salary or social_security_number columns.

2. What is the difference between user identification and user authentication?
Identification is the act of a user claiming an identity (e.g., typing a username). It tells the system "who" the user is.
Authentication is the process of verifying that claim (e.g., providing a password or biometric). It proves the user is "who they say they are."
practical example from dvd rental:
a staff member tries to log in:
Identification would be typing username. Authentification would be providing the correct password.
A real scenario: in an airport security showing your boarding pass is identification. Showing your passport is authentication so you are proving you are the person named on that pass.

3. What are the recommended authentication protocols for PostgreSQL?

scram-sha-256  - The most secure native password-based method. It uses a challenge-response mechanism that prevents password sniffing.
GSSAPI/Kerberos - Best for large enterprises to enable Single Sign-On (SSO).
Certificate - Uses SSL certificates for high-security environments where the client must have a physical file to connect.
Practical Example from dvd_rental:
Configuring the pg_hba.conf file to ensure any user accessing the dvd_rental database from the local network must use the most secure password method.
Real Scenario
Banking Apps: Most modern web applications use SCRAM or OpenID Connect so that even if a database backup is stolen, the passwords aren't stored in a way that can be 
easily decrypted.

4. What is proxy authentication in PostgreSQL and what is it for? Why does it make the previously discussed role-based access control easier to implement?

Proxy Authentication (often implemented via the SET ROLE command in Postgres) allows a user to log in with their own credentials but then "assume" the identity and 
permissions of a specific group role.
It simplifies Role-Based Access Control because Instead of assigning 50 different permissions to 10 different employees, we assign those permissions to one Group Role 
(e.g., manager_role). When an employee logs in, they "switch" into that role. This makes onboarding and offboarding easy—you just add or remove the user from the group.
Practical example from dvd rental: Practical Example (dvd_rental)
a.Create a group role: CREATE ROLE rental_manager;
b.Grant it full access to rental and payment tables.
c.Grant the role to a user: GRANT rental_manager TO alice;
d.Alice logs in as herself and executes: SET ROLE rental_manager;
Real Scenario
Contractor Access - A temporary database administrator is hired. Instead of manually granting them access to 200 tables, we grant them the temp_dba role. When their 
contract ends, we simply revoke that one role, ensuring no "permission creep" is left behind in the system.